# Nodes

Once you've started `roscore`, you can run programs that use ROS. A running instance of a
ROS program is called a [**node**](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/UnderstandingNodes).

> ⏩ The phrase "running instance of" in this definition is important. If we execute 
> multiple copies of the same program at the same time — taking care to ensure that each
> uses a different node name — each of those copies is treated as a separate node. We
> will see this difference in action in Section 2.8.

In the `turtlesim` example, we created two nodes. One node is an instance of an executable called `turtlesim_node`. 
This node is responsible for creating the `turtlesim` window and simulating the motion of the turtle. 
The second node is an instance of an executable called `turtle_teleop_key`. The abbreviation `teleop` is a shortened form of the
word **teleoperation**, which refers to situations in which a human controls a robotremotely
by giving direct movement commands. This node waits for an arrow key to be pressed,
converts that key press to a movement command, and sends that command to the `turtlesim_node` node.

## Starting nodes

The basic command to create a node (also known as "running a ROS program") is [`rosrun`](http://wiki.ros.org/rosbash#rosrun):
```
rosrun package-name executable-name
```
There are two required parameters to `rosrun`. The first parameter is a package name. We
discussed package names in Section 2.4. The second parameter is simply the name of an
executable file within that package.

> ⏩ There's nothing "magical" about `rosrun`: It's just a shell script that understands
> ROS's file organization well enough to know where to look for executables by their
> package names. Once it finds the program you ask for, `rosrun` executes that program normally. 
> For example, if you really wanted to, you could execute `turtlesim_node` directly, just like any other program:
> ```
> /opt/ros/indigo/lib/turtlesim/turtlesim_node
> ```
> The work of registering with the master to become a ROS node happens inside the
> program, not in `rosrun`.

## Listing nodes

ROS provides a few ways to get information about the nodes that are running at any particular time.
To get a list of running nodes, try [this command](http://wiki.ros.org/rosnode):
```
rosnode list
```
If you do this after executing the commands from Section 2.3, you'll see a list of three
nodes:
```
/rosout
/teleop_turtle
/turtlesim
```
A few things about this list are worthy of note.

- The `/rosout` node is a special node that is started automatically by `roscore`. Its purpose is 
somewhat similar to the standard output (i.e. `std::cout`) that you might use
in a console program. We look at `/rosout` more fully in Section 4.4.2.

> ⏩ The leading `/` in the name `/rosout` indicates that this node's name is in the
> **global namespace**. ROS has a rich system for naming nodes and other objects.
> This system, which Chapter 5 discusses in more detail, uses [**namespaces**](http://wiki.ros.org/Names) to organize things.

- The other two nodes should be fairly clear: They're the simulator (`turtlesim`) and
the teleoperation program (`teleop_turtle`) we started in Section 2.3.
- If you compare the output of `rosnode` list to the executable names in the `rosrun`
commands from Section 2.3, you'll notice that **node names** are not necessarily the
same as the names of the executables underlying those nodes.
> ⏩ You can explicitly set the name of a node as part of the `rosrun` command:
> ```
> rosrun package-name executable-name __name:=node-name
> ```

## Inspecting a node

You can get some information about a particular node using this command:
```
rosnode info node-name
```
The output includes a list of topics — See Section 2.7.2 — for which that node is a publisher
or subscriber, the services—See Chapter 8 — offered by that node, its Linux process identifier
(PID), and a summary of the connections it has made to other nodes.

## Killing a node
To kill a node you can use this command:
```
rosnode kill node-name
```
Unlike killing and restarting the master, killing and restarting a node usually does not
have a major impact on other nodes; even for nodes that are exchanging messages, those
connections would be dropped when the node is killed and reestablished when the node
restarts.

> ⚠️ You can also kill a node using the usual <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd> technique. However, that method
may not give the node a chance to unregister itself from the master. A symptom of
this problem is that the killed node may still be listed by `rosnode` list for a while.
This is harmless, but might make it more difficult to tell what's going on. To remove
dead nodes from the list, you can use this command:
```
rosnode cleanup
```
