---
layout: default
title: Accessing parameters from the command line
parent: Parameters
nav_order: 1
---
# Accessing parameters from the command line
{: .no_toc }
Let's start with a few commands to see how parameters work.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

## Sumário
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}
---

## [**Listing**](http://wiki.ros.org/rosparam) parameters 
To see a list of all existing parameters, use this command:
```
rosparam list
```

On the author's system, with no nodes running, the output is:
```
A Gentle Introduction to ROS
116
/
166
100%
```

Each of these strings is a name — specifically, a global graph resource name (see Chapter 5) — that the parameter server has associated with some value.

> ⏩ In the current version of ROS, the parameter server is actually part of the master, so
it is started automatically by `roscore` or `roslaunch`. In nearly all cases, the parameter server works correctly behind the scenes, and there's no reason to think about
it explicitly. Keep in mind however, that all parameters are "owned" by the parameter server rather than by any particular node. This means that parameters — even
those created with private names — will continue to exist even after the node they're
intended for has terminated.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }


## Querying parameters
To ask the parameter server for the value of a parameter, use the
`rosparam get` command:
```
rosparam get parameter_name
```

For example, to read the value of the `/rosdistro` parameter, use this command:
```
rosparam get /rosdistro
```

The output is the string `indigo`, which is not too much of a surprise. It is also possible to
retrieve the values of every parameter in a namespace:
```
rosparam get namespace
```

On the author's computer, the output is:
```
rosdistro: indigo
roslaunch:
uris: host_donatello__38217: http://donatello:38217/
rosversion: 1.11.9
run_id: e574a908-70c5-11e4-899e-60d819d10251
```

## Setting parameters
To assign a value to a parameter, use a command like this:
```
rosparam set parameter_name parameter_value
```

This command can modify the values of existing parameters or create new ones. For example,
these commands create string parameters that store the wardrobe preferences of a
certain group of cartoon ducks:
```
rosparam set /duck_colors/huey red
rosparam set /duck_colors/dewey blue
rosparam set /duck_colors/louie green
rosparam set /duck_colors/webby pink
```

> ⏩ Alternatively, we can set several parameters in the same namespace at once:
>```
>rosparam set namespace values
>```
>The values should be specified as a YAML dictionary that maps parameter names to
>values. Here's an example that has the same effect as the four commands above:
>```
>
>rosparam set /duck_colors "huey: red
>dewey: blue
>louie: green
>webby: pink"
>```
>
> Note that this syntax requires newline characters in the command itself. This is not
>a problem because the opening quotation `mark` signals to bash that the command is
>not yet complete. Pressing `Enter` when a quoted argument is open inserts a newline
>character, as desired, instead of executing the command.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }
> ⚠️ The spaces after the colons are important, to ensure that `rosparam` treats this
> as a collection of parameters in the `/duck_colors` namespace, rather than as
> a single string parameter called `duck_colors` in the global namespace.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

## Creating and loading parameter files
To store all of the parameters from a namespace,
in `YAML` format, to a file, use `rosparam dump`:
```
rosparam dump filename 
```

The opposite of `dump` is `load`, which reads parameters from a file and adds them to the
parameter server:
```
rosparam load filename namespace
```

For both of these commands, the namespace argument is optional, and defaults to the
global namespace (`/`). The combination of `dump` and `load` can be useful for testing, because 
it provides a quick way to take a "snapshot" of the parameters in effect at a certain
time, and to recreate that scenario later.
