#  Setting parameters in launch files

Another very common method for setting parameters is to do so within a launch file.

### Setting parameters 

To ask `roslaunch` to set a parameter value, use a [`param`](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/param) 
element:

```
<param name="param-name" value="param-value" />
```

This element, as one would expect, assigns the given value to parameter with the given
name. The parameter name should, as usual, be a relative name. For example, this launch
file fragment is equivalent to the rosparam set commands on page 107:

```
<group ns="duck_colors">
   <param name="huey" value="red" />
   <param name="dewey" value="blue" />
   <param name="louie" value="green" />
   <param name="webby" value="pink" />
</group>
```

### Setting private parameters

Another option is to include `param` elements as children of a `node` element.

```
<node . . . >
   <param name="param-name" value="param-value" />
   . . .
</node>
```

With this construction, the parameter names are treated as private names for that node.

> ⏩*This is an exception to the usual rules for resolving names. Parameter names given
> in `param` elements that are children of `node` elements are always resolved as private
> names, regardless of whether they begin with ∼ or even /.*

For example, we might use code like this to launch our `pubvel_with_max` node with
its `private max_vel` parameter set correctly:

```
<node
  pkg="agitr"
  type="pubvel_with_max"
  name="publish_velocity"
/>
  <param name="max_vel" value="3" />
</node>
```
Listing 7.3 shows a complete launch file that launches a `turtlesim` and our two example
programs. Its result should be to show a `turtlesim` turtle moving quickly across a yellow
background.

### Reading parameters from a file

Finally, launch files also support an equivalent to [`rosparam load`](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/rosparam) 
, to set many parameters at once.

```
<rosparam command="load" file="path-to-param-file" />
```

The parameter file listed here is usually one created by `rosparam dump`. As with other
references to specific files (such as the `include` element from Section 6.5.1) it is typical to
use a `find` substitution to specify the file name relative to a package directory:

```
<rosparam
   command="load"
   file="$(find package-name)/param-file"
/>
```

```
1   <launch>
2     <node
3       pkg="turtlesim"
4       type="turtlesim_node"
5       name="turtlesim"
6     />
7     <node
8       pkg=" a g i t r "
9       type="pubvel_with_max "
10      name="publish_velocity"
11     >
12      <param name="max_vel" value="3" />
13    </node>
14    <node  
15      pkg=" a g i t r "
16      type="set_bg_color "
17      name="set_bg_color "
18    /> 
19   </launch>
```
Listing 7.3: A launch `file` called `fast_yellow.launch`. It starts the example programs from
Listings 7.1 and 7.2 and sets the `max_vel` parameter.

Along withrosparam load, this facility can be helpful for testing, because it allows us to
recreate the parameters that were in effect at a certain time in the past.
