---
layout: default
title: A subscriber program
parent: Escrevendo programas no ROS
nav_order: 4
---

# A subscriber program

{: .no_toc }

## Sumário
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}
---
So far, we’ve seen an example program that publishes messages. This is, of course, only
half of the story when it comes to communicating with other nodes via messages. Let’s
take a look now at a program that [**subscribes**](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/WritingPublisherSubscriber(c++)) to messages published by other nodes.

Continuing to use `turtlesim` as a test platform, we’ll subscribe to the `/turtle1/pose`
topic, on which turtlesim_node publishes<sup>1</sup>. Messages on this topic describe the **pose** — a
term referring to position and orientation — of the turtle. [Lista 3.5](#lista-35) shows a short program that subscribes to those messages and summarizes them for us via `ROS_INFO-_STREAM`. Although some parts of this program should be familiar by now, there are three new elements.

#### **Lista 3.5**
{: .no_toc }
#### A ROS program called `subpose.cpp` that subscribes to pose data published by a `turtlesim` robot.
{: .no_toc }
```
1 // This program subscribes to turtle1/pose and shows its
2 // messages on the screen .
3 #include <ros/ros.h>
4 #include <turtlesim/Pose.h>
5 #include <iomanip> // for std :: setp recision and std :: fixed
6
7 // A callback function. Executed each time a new pose
8 // message arrives.
9 void pose MessageReceived (const turtlesim :: Pose&msg ) {
10 ROS_INFO_STREAM(std :: setprecision (2) << std :: fixed
11 << "position =("<< msg.x << " , " << msg.y << ")"
12 << "␣direction=" << msg.theta);
13 }
14
15 int main (int argc, char ∗∗ argv) {
16 // Initialize the ROS system and become a node .
17 ros :: init(argc, argv, "subscribe_to_pose");
18 ros :: NodeHandle nh ;
19
20 // Create a subscriber object .
21 ros :: Subscriber sub = nh.subscribe ("turtle1/pose" , 1000,
22 &poseMessageReceived);
23
24 // Let ROS take over .
25 ros :: spin();
26 }
```


### Writing a callback function

One important difference between publishing and subscribing is that a subscriber node doesn’t know when messages will arrive. To deal with this fact,
we must place any code that responds to incoming messages inside a **callback function**,
which ROS calls once for each arriving message. A subscriber callback function looks like
this:

```
void function_name(const package_name::type_name &msg) {
. . .
}
```

The `package_name` and `type_name` are the same as for publishing: They refer to the
message class for the topic to which we plan to subscribe. The body of the callback function then has access to all of the fields in the received message, and can store, use, or discard that data as it sees fit. As always, we must include the appropriate header that defines
this class.

In the example, our callback accepts messages of type `turtlesim::Pose`, so the header
we need is `turtlesim/Pose.h`. (We can learn that this is the correct message type using `rostopic info`; recall Section 2.7.2.) The callback simply prints out some data from the message, including its `x`, `y`, and theta data members, via `ROS_INFO_STREAM`. (We can
learn what data fields the message type has using `rosmsg show`, again from Section 2.7.2.)
A real program would, of course, generally do some meaningful work with the message.


Notice that subscriber callback functions have a void return type. A bit of thought
should confirm that this makes sense. Since it’s ROS’s job to call this function, there’s no
place in our program for any non-void return value to go.


### Creating a subscriber object

To [**subscribe**](http://wiki.ros.org/roscpp/Overview/Publishers%20and%20Subscribers) to a topic, we create a `ros::Subscriber object`:

```
ros::Subscriber sub = node_handle.subscribe(topic_name,
queue_size, pointer_to_callback_function);
```

This line has several moving parts (most of which have analogues in the declaration of a
`ros::Publisher`):

- The `node_handle` is the same node handle object that we’ve seen several times
already.

- The `topic_name` is the name of the topic to which we want to subscribe, in the
form of a string. This example uses "`turtle1/pose`". Again, we omit the leading
slash to make this string a relative name.

- The `queue_size` is the integer size of the message queue for this subscriber. Usually, you can use a large value like 1000 without worrying too much about the queuing process.

> ⏩ When new messages arrive, they are stored in a queue until ROS gets a chance
> to execute your callback function. This parameter establishes a maximum
> number of messages that ROS will store in that queue at one time. If new
> messages arrive when the queue is full, the oldest unprocessed messages will
> be dropped to make room. This may seem, on the surface, to be very similar
> to the technique used for publishing messages—See page 50—but differs in
> an important way: The rate at which ROS can empty a publishing queue depends
> on the time taken to actually transmit the messages to subscribers, and
> is largely out of our control. In contrast, the speed with which ROS empties
> a subscribing queue depends on how quickly we process callbacks. Thus, we
> can reduce the likelihood of a subscriber queue overflowing by (a) ensuring
> that we allow callbacks to occur, via ros::spin or ros::spinOnce, frequently,
> and (b) reducing the amount of time consumed by each callback.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

- The last parameter is a pointer to the callback function that ROS should execute
when messages arrive. In C++, you can get a pointer to a function using the ampersand 
(`&`, “address-of”) operator on the function name. In our example, it looks like
this:
```
 &poseMessageReceived
```

> ⚠️ Don’t make the common mistake of writing () (or even (msg)) after the function name.
> Those parentheses (and arguments) are needed only when you actually want to call a
> function, not when you want to get a pointer to a function without calling it, as we
> are doing here. ROS supplies the required arguments when it calls your callback function.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

> ⏩ Comment on C++ syntax: The ampersand is actually optional, and many programs omit it.
> The compiler can tell that you want a pointer to the function, rather than the value returned
> from executing the function, because the function name is not followed by parentheses.
> The author’s suggestion is to include it, because it makes the fact that we’re dealing with a
> pointer more obvious to human readers.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

You might notice that, while creating a `ros::Subscriber object`, we do not explicitly
mention the message type anywhere. In fact, the subscribe method is templated, and
the C++ compiler infers the correct message type based on the data type of the callback
function pointer we provide.

> ⚠️ If you use the wrong message type as the argument to your callback function, the
> compiler will not be able to detect this error. Instead, you’ll see run-time error messages
> complaining about the type mismatch. These errors could, depending on the timing, come from 
> either the publisher or subscriber nodes.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

One potentially counterintuitive fact about `ros::Subscriber` objects is that it is quite
rare to actually call any of their methods. Instead, the lifetime of that object is the most
relevant part: When we construct a `ros::Subscriber`, our node establishes connections
with any publishers of the named topic. When the object is destroyed—either by going out
of scope, or by a delete of an object created by the new operator—those connections are
dropped.

### Giving ROS control 
The final complication is that ROS will only execute our [**callback
function**](http://wiki.ros.org/roscpp/Overview/CallbacksandSpinning) when we give it explicit permission to do so. There are actually two slightly
different ways to accomplish this. One version looks like this:
```
ros::spinOnce();
```
This code asks ROS to execute all of the pending callbacks from all of the node’s subscriptions, and then *return control back to us*. The other option looks like this:
```
ros::spin();
```
This alternative to ```ros::spinOnce()``` asks ROS to wait for and execute callbacks *until the
node shuts down*. In other words, ```ros::spin()``` is roughly equivalent to this loop:

```
while(ros::ok()) {
ros::spinOnce();
}
 ```
 

The question of whether to use ```ros::spinOnce()``` or ```ros::spin()``` comes down to this: Does
your program have any repetitive work to do, other than responding to callbacks? If the
answer is “No,” then use ```ros::spin()```. If the answer is “Yes,” then a reasonable option is to
write a loop that does that other work and calls ```ros::spinOnce()``` periodically to process
callbacks. [Lista 3.5](#lista-35) uses ```ros::spin()``` because that program’s only job is to receive and
summarize incoming pose messages.


> ⚠️ A common error in subscriber programs is to mistakenly omit both ```ros::spinOnce```
> and ```ros::spin```. In this case, ROS never has an opportunity to execute your callback
> function. Omitting ```ros::spin will``` likely cause your program to exit shortly after it
> starts. Omitting ```ros::spinOnce``` might make it appear as though no messages are
> being received.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

## Compiling and executing ```subpose```


This program can be compiled and executed just like the first two examples we’ve seen.


> ⚠️ Don’t forget to ensure that your package has a dependency on ```turtlesim```, which is
> needed because we’re using the ```turtlesim/Pose``` message type. See Section 3.3.3 for
> a reminder of how to declare this dependency.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }


A sample of the program’s output, from when both `turtlesim_node` and `pubvel` were
also running, appears as [Lista 3.6](#lista-36).


#### **Lista 3.6**
{: .no_toc }
#### Sample output from subpose, showing gradual changes in the robot’s pose.
{: .no_toc }
```
[ INFO ] [1370972120.089584153] : position = (2.42 , 2.32) direction = 1.93
[ INFO ] [1370972120.105376510] : position = (2.41 , 2.33) direction = 1.95
[ INFO ] [1370972120.121365352] : position = (2.41 , 2.34) direction = 1.96
[ INFO ] [1370972120.137468325] : position = (2.40 , 2.36) direction = 1.98
[ INFO ] [1370972120.153486499] : position = (2.40 , 2.37) direction = 2.00
[ INFO ] [1370972120.169468546] : position = (2.39 , 2.38) direction = 2.01
[ INFO ] [1370972120.185472204] : position = (2.39 , 2.39) direction = 2.03
```

____
<sup>1</sup> How do we know that turtlesim_node publishes on this topic? One way to find out is to start that node
and then use `rostopic list`, `rosnode info`, or `rqt_graph` to see the topics being published. See Section 2.7.1.
