---
layout: default
title: Launching nodes inside a namespace
parent: Arquivos de launch
nav_order: 3
---

#  Launching nodes inside a namespace

We saw in Section 5.2 that ROS supports relative names, which utilize the concept of a
default namespace. The usual way to set the default namespace for a node — a process
often called **pushing down** into a namespace — is to use a launch file, and assign the ns
attribute in its node element:

```
ns="namespace"
```

A [Lista 6.3](#lista-63) shows an example launch file that uses this attribute to create two independent
turtlesim simulators. Figure 6.1 shows the nodes and topics that result from this launch
file.

#### **Lista 6.3**
{: .no_toc }
##### A launch file called `doublesim.launch` that starts two independent `turtlesim` simulations. One simulation has a turtle moved by randomly-generated velocity commands; the other is teleoperated.
{: .no_toc }
```
1 <launch>
2   <node
3     name="turtle sim_node "
4     pkg=" turtlesim "
5     type="turtle sim_node "
6     ns="sim1 "
7   />
8   <node
9     pkg=" turtlesim "
10    type="turtle_teleop_key "
11    name="teleop_key "
12    required="true "
13    launch − prefix="xterm−e "
14    ns="sim1 "
15  />
16  <node
17    name="turtle sim_node "
18    pkg=" turtle sim "
19    type="turtle sim_node "
20    ns="sim2 "
21  />
22  <node
23    pkg=" agitr "
24    type="pubvel "
25    name=" velocity_publisher "
26    ns="sim2 "
27  />
28 </launch>
```

* The usual `turtlesim topic names` (`turtle1/cmd_vel`, `turtle1/color_sensor`, and
`turtle1/pose`) are moved from the global namespace into separate namespaces called `/sim1` and `/sim2`. This change occurs because the code for `turtlesim_node` uses
relative names like `turtle1/pose` (instead of global names like `/turtle1/pose`), when
it creates its `ros::Publisher` and `ros::Subscriber` objects.
* Likewise, the node names in the launch file are relative names. In this case, both
nodes have the same relative name, `turtlesim_node`. Such identical relative names
are not a problem, however, because the global names to which they are resolved,
namely `/sim1/turtlesim_node` and `/sim2/turtlesim_node`, are different.

> ⏩ In fact, `roslaunch` requires the node names in the launch files to be base
names — relative names without mention of any namespaces — and will complain if a global name appears in the `name` attribute of a `node` element.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

This example has some similarities to the system discussed in Section 2.8.2<sup>[1](#fn1)</sup>
In both cases, we start multiple `turtlesim` nodes. The results, however, are quite different. In Section 2.8, we changed only the node names, and left all of the nodes in
the same namespace. As a result, both turtlesim nodes subscribe to and publish on the same topics. There is no straightforward way to interact with either of the two 
simulations individually. In the new example from [Lista 6.3](#lista-63), we pushed each simulator node into its own namespace. The resulting changes to the topic names make the 
two simulators truly independent, enabling us to publish different velocity commands to each one.

> ⏩ In this example, the namespaces specified by the `ns` attributes are themselves relative names. That is, we used the names `sim1` and `sim2` in a context within the
> launch file in which the default namespace is the global namespace `/`. As a result,
> the default namespaces for our two nodes are resolved to `/sim1` and `/sim2`.
>
> It is technically possible to provide a global name for this attribute instead. However, that's almost always a bad idea, for essentially the same reason that using
> global names inside nodes is a bad idea. Doing so would prevent the launch file
> from itself being pushed into a namespace of its own, for example as a result of being included by another launch file.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

____
<a name="fn1">1</a> As an aside, now that we've seen launch files, you should be able to replace the ugly series of four rosrun
commands that section with a single small launch file.

