# Remapping names

In addition to resolving relative names and private names, ROS nodes also support [**remappings**](http://wiki.ros.org/Remapping%20Arguments), which provide a finer level of control for modifying the names used by our nodes.Í6
Remappings are based on the idea of substitution: Each remapping provides an original
name and a new name. Each time a node uses any of its remappings’ original names, the
ROS client library silently replaces it with the new name from that remapping.

##  Creating remappings

There are two ways create remappings when starting a node.

* To remap a name when starting a node from the command line, give the original
name and the new name, separated by a `:=`, somewhere on the command line.

```
original-name:=new-name
```

For example, to run a turtlesim instance that publishes its pose data on a topic
called `/tim` instead of `/turtle1/pose`, use a command like this:

```
rosrun turtlesim turtlesim_node turtle1/pose:=tim
```

* To [**remap**](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/remap) names within a launch file, use a remap element:

```
<remap from="original-name" to="new-name" />
```

If it appears at the top level, as a child of the `launch` element, this remapping will
apply to all subsequent nodes. These `remap` elements can also appear as children of
a `node` element, like this:

```
<node node-attributes >
<remap from="original-name" to="new-name" />
. . .
</node>
```

In this case, the given remappings are applied only to the single node that owns
them. For example, the command line above is essentially equivalent to this launch
file construction:

```
<node pkg="turtlesim" type="turtlesim_node"
name="turtlesim" >
<remap from="turtle1/pose" to="tim" />
</node>
```

There is one important thing to remember about the way remappings are applied: All
names, including the original and new names in the remapping itself, are resolved to global
names, before ROS applies any remappings. As a result, names that appear in remappings
are often relative names. After name resolution is complete, remapping is done by a direct string comparison, looking for names used by a node that exactly match the resolved
original name in any remapping.

## Reversing a turtle

For a concrete example of how these kinds of remappings might be helpful, consider a
scenario in which we want to use `turtle_teleop_key` to drive a `turtlesim` turtle, *but with
the meanings of arrow keys reversed*. That is, suppose we want the left and right arrow keys
to rotate the turtle clockwise and counterclockwise, respectively, and the up and down
arrows to move the turtle backward and forward, respectively. The example may seem
contrived, but it does represent a general class of real problems in which the messages
published by one node must be “translated” into a format expected by another node.

One option, of course, would be to make a copy of the `turtle_teleop_key` source code
and modify it to reflect the change we want. This option is very unsatisfying, because
it would require us to understand and, even worse, to duplicate the `turtle_teleop_key`
code. Instead, let’s see how to do this compositionally, creating a new program that inverts
the velocity commands published by the existing teleoperation node.


Listing 6.4 shows a short program that performs the change that we need: It subscribes
to `turtle1/cmd_vel` and, for each message it receives, it inverts the both linear and angular velocities, publishes the resulting velocity command on `turtle1/cmd_vel_reversed`.

```
1 // This program subscribes to turtle1/cmd_vel and
2 // republishes on turtle1/cmd_vel_reversed,
3 // with the signs inverted .
4 #include <ros/ros.h>
5 #include <geometry_msgs/Twist.h>
6
7 ros :: Publisher∗pubPtr;
8
9 void commandVelocityReceived(
10    const geometry_msgs :: Twist&msgIn
11 ) {
12    geometry_msgs : : Twist msgOut ;
13    msgOut.linear.x = −msgIn.linear.x ;
14    msgOut.angular.z = −msgIn.angular.z;
15    pubPtr−>publish(msgOut) ;
16 }
17
18 int main (int argc, char ∗∗ argv){
19    ros :: init (argc, argv, " reverse_velocity") ;
20    ros :: NodeHandle nh;
21
22    pubPtr = new ros :: Publisher(
23    nh.advertise <geometry_msgs :: Twist >(
24    " turtle1/cmd_vel_reversed",
25    1000));
26
27    ros :: Subscriber sub = nh.subscribe(
28    " turtle1/cmd_vel" , 1000,
29    &commandVelocityReceived) ;
30
31    ros :: spin() ;
32
33    delete pubPtr ;
34 }
```
*Listing 6.4*: A C++ program called `reverse_cmd_vel` that reverses turtlesim velocity commands.


The only complication—and the reason this example belongs in a section about remappings—is that the ``turtlesim` simulator does not actually subscribe to those reversed
velocity messages. Indeed, starting the three relevant nodes with simple `rosrun` commands leads to the graph structure shown in Figure 6.2. From the graph, it’s clear that this
system would not have the desired behavior. Because velocity commands still travel directly from `teleop_turtle` to `turtlesim`, the turtle will still respond in its usual, unreversed
way.

**COLOCAR IMAGEM AQUI**

This situation—one in which some node subscribes to the “wrong” topic—is precisely
the kind of situation for which remappings are intended. In this case, we can correct
the problem by sending a remapping to turtlesim that replaces `turtle1/cmd_vel` with
`turtle1/cmd_vel_reversed`. Listing 6.5 shows a launch file that starts all three nodes,
including the appropriate remap for the `turtlesim_node`; Figure 6.3 shows the correct
graph that results.
