---
layout: default
title: Other launch file elements
parent: Arquivos de launch
nav_order: 5
---

# Other launch file elements
{: .no_toc }

## Sumário
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}
---

This section introduces a few [**additional `roslaunch` constructions**](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials/Roslaunchtipsforlargerprojects). 
To illustrate these
features, we’ll refer to the launch file in [Lista 6.6](#lista-66). This launch file starts either two or
three independent `turtlesim` simulators, depending on how it is launched.

#### **Lista 6.6**
{: .no_toc }
#### A launch file called triplesim.launch that illustrates `group`, `include`, and `arg` arguments.
```console
$ triplesim.launch
<launch>
  <include
    file ="$(findagitr)/double sim.launch "
  />
  <arg
  name="use_sim3 "
  default="0"
  />

  <group ns="sim3 " if ="$ (arg use_sim3) " >
    <node
      name="turtlesim_node "
      pkg="turtlesim"
      type="turtlesim_node "
    />
    <node
      pkg="turtlesim "
      type="turtle_teleop_key"
      name="teleop_key "
      required="true"
      launch−prefix="xterm−e "
    />
  </group>
</launch>
```

## Including other files
To include the contents of another launch file, including all of its nodes and parameters,
use an [**include element**](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/include):

```
<include file="path-to-launch-file" />
```

The file attribute expects the full path to the file we want to include. Because it can be
both cumbersome and brittle to enter this information directly, most include elements
use a find substitution to search for a package, instead of explicitly naming a directory:

```
<include file="$(find package-name)/launch-file-name" />
```

The find argument is expanded, via a string substitution, to the path to the given package.
The specific launch file is usually much easier to name from there. The example uses this
technique to include our previous example, `doublesim.launch`.

>⚠️Don’t forget that `roslaunch` will search through a package’s subdirectories when
> searching for a launch file given on its command line. On the other hand, include
> elements must name the specific path to the file they want, and cannot rely on this
> search of subdirectories. This difference explains how the include element above
> might generate errors, even though a call to `roslaunch`, with the same package name
> and launch file name, succeeds.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

The include element also supports the `ns` attribute for pushing its contents into a
namespace:
```
<include file=". . . " ns="namespace" />
```

This setup occurs fairly commonly, especially when the included launch file is part of a
another package, and should operate mostly independently of the rest of the nodes.

## Launch arguments
To help make launch files configurable, `roslaunch` supports [**launch arguments**](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/arg), also called
**arguments** or even **args**, which function somewhat like local variables in an executable
program. The advantage is that you can avoid code duplication by writing launch files
that use arguments for the small number of details that might change from run to run.
To illustrate this idea, the example launch file uses one argument, called `use_sim3`, to
determine whether to start three copies of turtlesim or only two.

>⚠️ Although the terms argument and parameter are used somewhat interchangeably
> in many computing contexts, their meanings are quite different in ROS. Parameters
> are values used by a running ROS system, stored on the parameter server and accessible
> to active nodes via the `ros::param::get` functions and to users via `rosparam`.
>(See Chapter 7.) In contrast, arguments make sense only within launch files; their
>values are not directly available to nodes.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

### Declaring arguments
 To **declare** the existence of an argument, use an arg element:
```
<arg name="arg-name" />
```
Declarations like this are not strictly required (unless you want to assign a default or a
value—see below), but are a good idea because they can make it clear to a human reader
what arguments the launch file is expecting.

### Assigning argument values
 Every argument used in a launch file must have an assigned
value. There are a few ways to accomplish this. You can provide a value on the roslaunch
command line:
```
roslaunch package-name launch-file-name arg-name:=arg-value
```

Alternatively, you can provide a value as part of the arg declaration, using one of these two
syntaxes:
```
<arg name="arg-name" default="arg-value" />
```
```
<arg name="arg-name" value="arg-value" />
```
The only difference between them is that a command line argument can override a default, but
not a value. In the example, `use_sim3` has a default value of 0, but this can be
changed from the command line, like this:
```
roslaunch agitr triplesim.launch use_sim3:=1
```
If we were to modify the launch file, replacing default with value, then this command
would generate an error, because argument values set by value cannot be changed.

### Accessing argument values
 Once an argument is declared and a value assigned to it, you
can use its value using an arg substitution, like this:
```
$(arg arg-name)
```
Anywhere this substitution appears, `roslaunch` will replace it with the value of the given
argument. In the example, we use the `use_sim3` argument once, inside the if attribute of
a group element. (We’ll introduce both if and group shortly.)

### Sending argument values to included launch files
 One limitation of the argument setting technique
presented so far is that it does not provide any means for passing arguments
to subordinate launch files that we import using include elements. This is important because,
much like (lexical) local variables, arguments are only defined for the launch file
that declares them. Arguments are not “inherited” by included launch files.
  The solution is to insert arg elements as children of the include element, like this:
  ```
  <include file="path-to-launch-file">
    <arg name="arg-name" value="arg-value"/>
  . . .
  </include>
  ```
Note that this usage of the arg element differs from the arg declarations we’ve seen so
far. The arguments mentioned between the include tags are arguments for the included
launch file, not for the launch file in which they appear. Because the purpose is to establish
values for the arguments needed by the included file, the value attribute is required in this
context.
One common scenario is that both launch files—the included one and the including
one—have some arguments in common. In such cases, we might want to pass those values
along unchanged. An element like this, using the same argument name in both places,
does this:
```
<arg name="arg-name" value="$(arg arg-name)" />
```
In this instance, the first appearance of the argument’s name refers, as usual, to
that argument in the included launch file. The second appearance of the name refers to
the argument in the including launch file. The result is that the given argument will have the same
value in both launch files.

## Creating groups
One final launch file feature is the group element, which provides a convenient way to
organize nodes in a large launch file. [**The group element**](http://wiki.ros.org/roslaunch/XML/group) can serve two purposes:

### Groups can push several nodes into the same namespace.

```
<group ns="namespace">
 . . .
</group>
```
Every node within the group starts with the given default namespace.

> ⏩ If a grouped node has its own ns attribute, and that name is (as it probably
> should be) a relative name, then the resulting node will be started with a default namespace that nests the latter namespace within the former. These
> rules, which match what one would expect for resolving relative names, also
> apply to nested groups.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

### Groups can conditionally enable or disable nodes.

```
<group if="0-or-1">
 . . .
</group>
```

If the value of the if attribute is `1`, then the enclosed elements are included normally.
If this attribute has value `0`, then the enclosed elements are ignored. The unless
attribute works similarly, but with the meanings reversed:

```
<group unless="1-or-0">
 . . .
</group>
```

Of course, it is unusual to directly type a `0` or `1` for these attributes. Combined with
the arg substitution technique, however, they form a powerful way of making your
launch files configurable.

>⚠️ Note that `0` and `1` are the only legitimate values for these attributes. In particular, 
> the usual boolean `AND` and `OR` operations that you might expect are not
> directly available.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

The example has a single group that combines these two purposes. The group has
both the ns attribute (to push the group’s two nodes into the `sim3` namespace) and the
if attribute (to implement the enabling or disabling of that third simulation based on the
`use_sim3` argument).

>⚠️ Notice that group is never strictly necessary. It’s always possible to write the `ns`, `if`,
> and `unless` attributes manually for each element that we might otherwise include
> in a group. However, groups can often reduce duplication—the namespaces and
> conditions appear only once—and make the launch file’s organization more readily
> apparent.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

> ⏩ Unfortunately, only these three attributes can be passed down via a group. 
> For example, as much as we might want to, `output="screen"` cannot be set for a group
> element, and must be given directly to each node to which we want to apply it.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

