# Global names

Nodes, topics, services, and parameters are collectively referred to as **graph resources**. Every graph 
resource is identified by a short string called a [**graph resource name**](http://wiki.ros.org/Names). 
Graph resource names are ubiquitous, both in ROS command lines and in code. Both `rosnode` info and 
`ros::init` expect node names; both `rostopic echo` and the constructor for `ros::- Publisher` expect
topic names. All of these are instances of graph resource names. Here are some specific graph resource 
names that we’ve encountered already:

```
/teleop_turtle 
/turtlesim
/turtle1/cmd_vel 
/turtle1/pose
/run_id 
/count_and_log/set_logger_level
```

These names are all examples of a specific class of names called **global names**. They’re called global 
names because they make sense anywhere they’re used. These names have clear, unambiguous meanings, whether 
they’re used as arguments to one of the many command line tools or inside a node. No additional context 
information is needed to decide which resource the name refers to. 

There are several parts to a global name:

- A leading slash /, which identifies the name as a global name.
- A sequence of zero or more **namespaces**, separated by slashes. Namespaces are used to group related 
graph resources together. The example names above include two explicit namespaces, called `turtle1` and 
`count_and_log`. Multiple levels of namespaces are allowed, so this is also a valid (but rather unlikely) 
global name, consisting of 11 nested namespaces:

```
/a/b/c/d/e/f/g/h/i/j/k/l
```

Global names that don’t explicitly mention any namespace—including three of the examples above—are said to 
be in the **global namespace**.

- A **base name** that describes the resource itself. The base names in the example above are `teleop_turtle`, 
`turtlesim`, `cmd_vel`, `pose`, `run_id`, and `set_logger_level`.

Notice that, if global names were required everywhere, then there would be little to gain from the complexity 
of using namespaces, other than perhaps making it easier for humans to keep track of things. The real advantage 
of this naming system comes from the use of relative names and private names.

