---
layout: default
title: Private names
parent: Recursos de grafo
nav_order: 3
---

# Private names

**Private names**, which begin with a tilde (`∼`) character, are the third and final class of graph
resource names. Like relative names, private names do not fully specify the namespace in
which they live, and instead rely on the ROS client library to resolve the name to a complete
global name. The difference is that, instead of using the current default namespace, private
names *use the name of their node as a namespace*.

For instance, in a node whose global name is `/sim1/pubvel`, the private name `∼max_vel`
would be converted to a global name like this:

| node name  | private name    | global data type  |
| ------------- | ------------ | ------------------ |
| `/sim1/pubvel` | `∼max_vel`  | `/sim1/pubvel/max_vel` |

The intuition is that each node has its own namespace for things that are related only
to that node, and are not interesting to anyone else. Private names are often used for
parameters — `roslaunch` has a specific feature for setting parameters that are accessible
by private names — and services that govern the operation of a node. It is
usually a mistake to use a private name to refer to a topic because, if we're keeping our
nodes loosely coupled, no topic is "owned" by any particular node.

> ⚠️Private names are private only in the sense that they are resolved into a namespace that is unlikely to be used by any other nodes. Graph resources referred to by private names remain accessible, via their global names, to any node that knows their name. This is a contrast, for example, to the `private` keyword in C++ and similar languages, which *prevents* other parts of a system from accessing certain class members.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }
