---
layout: default
title: Anonymous names
parent: Recursos de grafo
nav_order: 4
---

# Anonymous names

In addition to these three primary types of names, ROS provides one more naming mechanism called ***anonymous names***, which are specifically used to name nodes. The purpose
of an anonymous name is to make it easier to obey the rule that each node must have a
unique name. The idea is that a node can, during its call to `ros::init`, request that a unique
name be assigned automatically.

To request an anonymous name, a node should pass `ros::init_options::AnonymousName` as a fourth parameter to `ros::init:`

```
ros::init(argc, argv, base_name,ros::init_options::AnonymousName);
```

The effect of this extra option is to append some extra text to the given base name, ensuring
that the node’s name is unique.

> ⏩ Although the details of what specific extra text is added are not particularly important
> it is interesting to note that `ros::init` uses the current wall clock time to form
> anonymous names.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

A [Lista 5.1](#lista-51) shows a sample program that uses this feature. 
 
#### **Lista 5.1**
{: .no_toc }
##### A program called `anon.cpp` whose nodes have anonymous names. We can start as many simultaneous copies of this program as we like, without any node name conflicts.
```console
// This program starts with an anonymous name, which
// allows multiple copies to execute at the same time ,
// without needing to manually create distinct names
// for each of them .
#include <ros/ros.h>

int main (int argc, char ∗∗ argv) {
  ros::init (argc, argv, " anon ",
    ros::init_options::AnonymousName);
  ros::NodeHandle nh;
  ros::Rate rate(1);
  while(ros::ok()) {
    ROS_INFO_STREAM( " This ␣message ␣ i s ␣ from ␣"
    << ros::this_node::getName());
    rate.sleep();
   }
  }

```

Instead of simply being
named `anon`, nodes started from this program get names that look like this:
```
/anon_1376942789079547655
/anon_1376942789079550387
/anon_1376942789080356882
```

The program’s behavior is quite unremarkable, but because it requests an anonymous
name, we are free to run as many simultaneous copies of that program as we like, knowing
that each will be assigned a unique name when it starts.
