---
layout: default
title: Packages
parent: Começando
nav_order: 4
---

# Packages
{: .no_toc }


## Sumário
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

All ROS software is organized into **packages**. A ROS package is a coherent collection of files,
generally including both executables and supporting files, that serves a specific purpose.
In the example, we used two executables called `turtlesim_node` and `turtle_teleop_key`,
both of which are members of the `turtlesim` package.

> ⚠️ Be careful of the difference between ROS packages and the packages used by your
operating system’s package manager, such as the `deb` packages used by Ubuntu.
The concepts are similar, and installing a `deb` package may add one or more ROS
packages to your installation, but the two are not equivalent.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

It is not an overstatement to say that _all_ ROS software is part of one package or another.
Importantly, this includes new programs that you create. We’ll see how to create new packages in Section 3.1. 
In the meantime, ROS provides several commands for interacting with
installed packages.

## Listing and locating packages

You can obtain a list of all of the installed ROS packages
using this [command](http://wiki.ros.org/rospack):

```
rospack list
```
On the author’s system, this produces a list of 188 packages.
Each package is defined by a **manifest**, which is a file called `package.xml`. This file
defines some details about the package, including its name, version, maintainer, and dependencies.
The directory containing `package.xml` is called the **package directory**. (In
fact, this is the definition of a ROS package: Any directory that ROS can find that contains
a file named `package.xml` is a package directory.) This directory stores most of the package’s files.

> ⏩ An important exception is that, for most packages — specifically, those that have
> been updated to use the new `catkin` build system — compiled executables are not
> stored in the package directory, but in a separate standardized directory hierarchy.
>
> For packages installed by `apt-get`, this hierarchy is rooted at `/opt/ros/indigo`. 
> Executables are stored in the lib subdirectory under this root. Similarly, automatically
> generated include files are stored inside the include subdirectory under this root.
> When it needs them, ROS finds these files by searching in the directories listed in the
> `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` environment variable, which is set automatically by
> `setup.bash`. This sort of **out-of-source compilation** is one of the primary changes
> introduced by `catkin` in the `groovy` distribution of ROS, compared to `fuerte` and
> older distributions. Generally, though, all of this happens behind the scenes, and
> we can rely on ROS to find the files it needs.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

To find the directory of a single package, use the `rospack` find command:
```
rospack find package-name
```
Of course, there may be times when you don’t know (or can’t remember) the complete
name of the package that you’re interested in. In these cases, it’s quite convenient that
`rospack` supports **tab completion** for package names. For example, you could type
```
rospack find turtle
```
and, before pressing <kbd>Enter</kbd>, press the <kbd>Tab</kbd> key twice to see a list of all of the installed ROS
packages whose names start with turtle.
  
In fact, most ROS commands support this kind of tab completion, not just for package names, but in nearly every place in which it makes sense. In the command above,
you could also use <kbd>Tab</kbd>s to complete both the command name `rospack` and the "subcommand" `find`.

> ⚠️ Frequent use of tab completion can go a long way toward reducing the number of
> things you’ll need to remember, including the full names of packages, nodes, topics, message types, and services. Computers are quite good at storing and recalling
> these kinds of things. Unsolicited advice: Let your computer do that job for you.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }

## Inspecting a package

To view the files in a package directory, use a command like this:
```
rosls package-name
```
If you’d like to “go to” a package directory, you can change the current directory to a particular package, using a command like this:
```
roscd package-name
```

As a simple example, suppose that you wanted to see the collection of turtle images used
by `turtlesim`. The code below shows an example of how you could use `rosls` and `roscd` to see a
list of these images and to view one of them.
```console
$ rosls turtlesim
cmake
images
msg
package.xml
srv
$ rosls turtlesim/images
box−turtle.png
diamondback.png
electric.png
fuerte.png
groovy.png
hydro.png
hydro.svg
indigo.png
indigo.svg
palette.png
robot−turtle.png
sea−turtle.png
turtle.png
$ ros cdturtlesim/images/
$ eog box−turtle.png
```

> ⚠️ In some parts of the online documentation, you may see references to the concept of a [**stack**](http://wiki.ros.org/rosbuild/Stacks). A stack is a collection of related packages. Starting with the
> `groovy` version of ROS, the stack concept was phased out and replaced by [**metapackages**](http://wiki.ros.org/catkin/package.xml).
> The biggest difference is a "flattening" of the hierarchy: A metapackage is a package — It has a manifest just like any other package, and no other
packages are stored inside its directory — whereas a stack is a container for packages stored as subdirectories. There's rarely a reason for new users to interact directly
with stacks.
{: .fs-3 .code-example }
